the head of hamas's political Bureau SM
hania says the group is ready to accept
an agreement that guarantees a permanent
ceas fire he says it also wants a full
withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza
reconstruction and an exchange
deal Hamas showed great seriousness and
flexibility in order to reach an
agreement that would spare the blood of
our Palestinian people and stop the
Israeli aggression this was reflected in
our acceptance of what was mentioned by
President Joe Biden in his speech as
well as our welcome to the security
Council resolution that was issued few
days ago we gave our response to the
mediators through a joint delegation
between us and our brothers in the
Islamic Jihad movement in Qatar our
response is consistent with the
principles put forward by President
Biden's speech and with the security
council's resolution regarding the three
stages of the deal and the terms of the
ceasefire please government has banned
aljer from reporting there so ham Sal
now joins us from the Jordanian Capital
am man so any reaction there in Israel
to the comments we're hearing from Hamas
members well there's always reaction
from Israeli officials When leaders in
Hamas speak out but all of those
comments are usually Anonymous to
Israeli media and some of those comments
that have been laay anonymously of
course have been saying that Hamas is
the reason there hasn't been a ceasefire
that the deal that the Biden
administration had laid out was in fact
rejected by Hamas the Israelis saw it as
a negative response so we've been seeing
a lot of pointing the finger a lot of
back and forth between the Israelis and
Hamas each side blames the other for why
there hasn't been a ceasefire agreement
and the anonymous Israeli officials
ended their statements to Israeli media
by saying that Hamas was in fact the one
who violated the previous ceasefire
agreement back in November where again
Hamas accuses the Israelis of violating
that deal but let's remember that both
sides have really tough sticking points
that we've been talking about for months
Hamas wants to see a total end to the
war a withdrawal of Israeli troops where
the Israelis have said that until all of
the goals of the war are achieved that's
simply not going to happen and if Hamas
does in fact want to see an end to the
war they're going to have to go back to
the Biden administration's three-phase
plan and really agree to it the way
Israel wants it but until now we are
still nowhere closer to a
deal and H a protest group began a
campaign of weeklong disruptions how
disruptive was the beginning
today well today we saw major highways
throughout Israel that have been blocked
in what protest organizers are calling a
week of disruption this means that there
will be sporadic protests every single
day throughout multiple parts of the
country and this is something we have
seen from the Israeli public before not
just throughout the war but in fact
previously before the war when they were
protesting against the government there
are expected to be protests throughout
the week outside of the Israeli
Parliament and what organizers are
saying is quote give the mandate back to
the people calling on elections to be
held immediately for new leadership
we've been seeing thousands of Israelis
taking to the streets in Tel Aviv and in
other parts of Israel on a weekly basis
but now they're saying that simply too
much time has gone by the war is
entering its 10th month and it is too
much time for the captives to still be
held in Gaza so the Israeli public is
trying to send a message that they're
looking for new leadership immediately
thanks so much h and a reminder the
Israeli government banned Al jazer from
operating in Israel and extended that
decision which is why hamda joined us
from neighboring
Jordan right Yousef Mandel is professor
of political science and international
relations at Carter University he joins
us from Constantine in Algeria good to
have you with us so first of all I mean
what does hamas's statement suggest to
you about where the ceasefire talks are
at this
stage well I think that what Hamas wants
is to
dictate uh its will on these
negotiations obviously the Israelis have
a different point of view they wanted uh
toes fires and they wanted to achieve
their stated objectives at the beginning
of the war namely
the destruction of Hamas and making sure
that Israel is safe there will be normal
attacks from Gaza Hamas on the other
hand uh has been holding tight on its
demands and they saying there no
there'll be no temporary ceasefires what
we want is a complete ceas fire for and
the secondly is complete withdrawal of
isra forces from Gaza and of course uh
building the whole area it seems to me
that given the international uh pressure
that we've seen in so many uh cities in
the western world and most importantly
in so many uh University campuses in the
United States and Britain just to name
these two traditional allies of Israel I
think that public opinion has been
swinging more towards Hamas there are so
many number of countries in Europe who
have
recognized uh Palestine as a state there
are many divisions within uh Israel
itself and especially the war cabinet
with the recent resignation of Gand I
think all these seem to strengthen
hamas's hands in the negotiations and
most importantly perhaps is that Israel
has not been able to defeat Hamas on uh
on the ground there'll be so many
Palestinian losses yes but the
Palestinians have been resilient and
they there as your images have shown
like you said few seconds ago that uh Al
jaaz was banned from reporting from
Israel is another uh important
development because Al jaaz has been
showing the other side of the story
something that the Israel do not want to
see
what is the US position though how is
that evolving well last we heard from
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin was
saying that hamas's response contains
things they can work on and things they
can't what is the position
now well I think it's very difficult to
Gorge the US's position obviously from
the beginning that the US has been very
supportive of uh Israel uh providing
them with all the support either
military political economic and so on
and so forth but given the elections in
the US within couple of months from uh
three months from now uh public opinion
has been swinging we see that at least
the US position has been trying to
realize that the situation is very very
serious they accepted that some of
hamas's uh demands are
legitimate they can work on but also
they don't want to upset the Biden
Administration doesn't want to upset the
strong Jewish Lobby in the US and does
not want to upset uh its allies in
Israel so I think it's taking the middle
ground and hoping hoping to see some
kind of developments that will make the
picture uh clearer as far as the United
States is concerned and youf today we
had some conflicting signals on a pause
the Israeli military saying earlier that
it would begin pauses isra politicians
being reported to have criticized that
what does that tell us about the
cohesiveness of thinking and decision
making within Israeli authorities right
now well I think they there are so many
deep divisions within Israel at the
moment they have been for the the last
uh few months or so there are people in
Israel who want a a ceasefire a complete
uh ceasefire but if there is a ceasefire
in at the moment I think that would
signal the end of Benyamin nanahu perip
I think there are the divisions in
Israel are two FS two camps the Natan
who Camp who want to continue uh this
war in order to achieve its objectives
and most importantly keep his uh
positions others in my mind to my mind
who see sense that this war who has been
going on for the last eight months or so
has not achieved any of its objectives
there have been some uh hostages freed
recently but they came at a very high
cost the all the hostages who are freed
were freed through negotiations so the
war has not achieved anything and these
people are seeing little bit of sense to
say that
the people are saying that the The Only
Way Forward is through negotiations and
the battlefield will not achieve
anything all right Yousef wandel from
cutter University thank you so
much thank you
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from alaz